www/content/comparison.md, before:

+++
title = "Comparison"
+++
<div class="table-wrapper">

| | Nomini | HTMX v4 | Alpine | Datastar |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Bundle Size (.min.gz)** | 🟢 ~1.8kb | 🟡 ~11.2kb | 🟡 ~15.3kb | 🟡 ~14.4kb |
| **Main Purpose** | Lightweight reactivity and partial page updates | Easy partial page updates | Full-featured reactivity system | Full-featured streaming page updates and reactivity |
| **Reactivity Model** | Proxy | 🔴 N/A | Proxy | Signals |
| **Data Scoping** | 🟡 `nm-data`, no inheritance | 🔴 N/A | 🟢 Global scope with overrides | 🟢 Global scope with overrides |
| **Event Handling** | 🟢 `nm-on` with modifiers | 🟢 `hx-on`/`hx-trigger` with many modifiers | 🟢 `x-on` with modifiers | 🟢 `data-on` with modifiers |
| **Templating** | 🟡 `template` + `nm-use` (simple) | 🔴 None | 🟢 `x-for`/`x-teleport` | 🟡 Rocket (pro only) |
| **Morphing** | 🔴 None | 🟡 Simple id-based (Idiomorph WIP) | 🔴 Only with `alpine-morph` | 🟢 Idiomorph built-in |
| **AJAX** | 🟢 `$fetch` | 🟢 `hx-get` | 🔴 Only with `alpine-ajax` | 🟢 `@get` |
| **Streaming Support** | 🟢 By HTML Chunk | 🟢 By HTML Chunk or SSE | 🔴 N/A | 🟢 By custom SSE format |
| **Server Requirements** | 🟢 Produce HTML | 🟢 Produce HTML | 🟡 Produce HTML and JSON | 🟡 Produce custom SSE format (or HTML) |
| **Learning Curve** | 🟢 Low | 🟢 Very Low | 🟡 Medium | 🟡 Medium–High |
| **Locality of Behavior** | 🟢 Excellent | 🟢 Excellent | 🟢 Excellent | 🟢 Excellent |
| **CSP Compatability** | 🔴 None | 🟢 Good | 🟡 Possible | 🔴 None |

</div>

Commit message:

feat: v0.3.0 (#3)
* refactor: collapse nm-on and nm-class into nm-bind, closer to the original Nomini, and more like vanilla JS
* feat: add CSS transition morph and code fences
* build: add simple build scripts
* feat: fix $watch, $dispatch, refactor $nmData, formatting, fix nm-bind, add .window modifier
* feat: add $persist helper
* chore(www): update docs

www/content/comparison.md, after:

+++
title = "Comparison"
+++
<div class="table-wrapper">

| | Nomini | HTMX v4 | Alpine | Datastar |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Bundle Size (.min.br)** | 🟢 ~1.8kb | 🟡 ~10.2kb | 🟡 ~14.7kb | 🟡 ~10.6kb |
| **Main Purpose** | Lightweight reactivity and partial page updates | Easy partial page updates | Full-featured reactivity system | Full-featured streaming page updates and reactivity |
| **Reactivity Model** | Proxy | 🔴 N/A | Proxy | Signals and Proxy |
| **Data Scoping** | 🟡 `nm-data`, no inheritance | 🔴 N/A | 🟢 Global tree with overrides | 🟢 Global tree with overrides |
| **Event Handling** | 🟢 `nm-on` with modifiers | 🟢 `hx-on`/`hx-trigger` with many modifiers | 🟢 `x-on/@` with modifiers | 🟢 `data-on` with modifiers |
| **Templating** | 🟡 `template` + `nm-use` (simple) | 🔴 None | 🟢 `x-for`/`x-teleport` | 🟡 Rocket (pro only) |
| **Transitions** | 🟡 ID-based settling | 🟡 ID-based settling | 🟢 `x-transition` | 🟢 Full morphing |
| **Morphing** | 🔴 None | 🔴 Idiomorph WIP, with extension currently | 🔴 Only with `alpine-morph` | 🟢 Improved Idiomorph built-in |
| **AJAX** | 🟢 `$fetch` | 🟢 `hx-get` | 🔴 Only with `alpine-ajax` | 🟢 `@get` |
| **Streaming Support** | 🟢 By HTML Chunk | 🟢 By HTML Chunk or SSE | 🔴 N/A | 🟢 By custom SSE format |
| **Server Requirements** | 🟢 Produce HTML | 🟢 Produce HTML | 🟡 Produce HTML and JSON | 🟡 Produce custom SSE format (or HTML) |
| **Server Power** | 🟡 Swap in reactive HTML, trigger events, use templates | 🟡 Swap in HTML, trigger events | 🔴 Only with `alpine-ajax` | 🟢 Update signals, run scripts, morph HTML |
| **Plugin Support** | 🔴 None | 🟢 Good plugin system | 🟢 Good plugin system | 🟢 Amazing plugin system (everything is a plugin) |
| **Community Support** | 🔴 GitHub only | 🟢 HTMX Discord + social media | 🟢 Large community, unofficial Discord | 🟢 Datastar Discord |
| **Docs Quality** | 🟡 Basic website and docs | 🟢 Comprehensive website with extensive docs and essays | 🟢 Comprehensive docs with many examples | 🟢 Comprehensive reference and good tutorial |
| **Learning Curve** | 🟢 Low | 🟢 Very Low | 🟡 Medium | 🟡 Medium–High |
| **Locality of Behavior** | 🟢 Excellent | 🟢 Excellent | 🟢 Excellent | 🟢 Excellent |
| **CSP Compatability** | 🔴 None | 🟢 Good | 🟡 Possible | 🔴 None |

</div>
